# Clip SOP

**Family:** SOP (Surface Operator)

## Summary

The Clip SOP cuts and creases source geometry with a plane.

## Parameters

###  Page

#### Group `group`

If there are input groups, specifying a group name in this field will cause this SOP to act only upon the group specified. Accepts patterns, as described in Pattern Matching in the Scripting Guide.

#### Keep `clipop`

Options controlling what part of the clip to keep:

- **Primitives Above the Plane** `above` - Retain the primitives above the cutting plane.
- **Primitives Below the Plane** `below` - Retain the primitives below the cutting plane.
- **All Primitives** `both` - Retain both the top and bottom primitives generated by the cutting plane. Creates a crease in the geometry.

#### Distance `dist`

Allows you to move the cutting plane along the Direction vector. If the Direction (plane's normal) is 0 1 0, putting a positive number in the Distance field moves the plane up in Y.

#### Direction `dir`

The default values of 0 1 0 creates a Normal vector straight up in Y, which is perpendicular to the XZ plane, which becomes the clipping plane. 1 0 0 points the normal in positive X, giving a clipping plane in YZ. The plane may be positioned at an angle by using values typed in (1 1 0 gives a 45 angle plane) or interactively by using the direction vector jack.

- **X** `dirx`
- **Y** `diry`
- **Z** `dirz`

#### Create Groups `newg`

When checked, allows you to generate specific groups for the geometry above and below the cutting plane. See the two group option fields below. This option is only available when All Primitives are kept.

#### Above Plane `above`

When Create Groups is checked, you can assign the geometry below the cutting plane to the Group name typed in this field.

#### Below Plane `below`

When Create Groups is checked, you can assign the geometry above the cutting plane to the Group name typed in this field.

## Operator Inputs

- Input 0: -

## Info CHOP Channels

Extra Information for the Clip SOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

### Common SOP Info Channels
- num_points - Number of points in this SOP.
- num_prims - Number of primitives in this SOP.
- num_particles - Number of particles in this SOP.
- last_vbo_update_time - Time spent in another thread updating geometry data on the GPU from the SOP's CPU data. As it is part of another thread, this time is not part of the usual frame time.
- last_meta_vbo_update_time - Time spent in another thread updating meta surface geometry data (such as metaballs or nurbs) on the GPU from the SOP's CPU data. As it is part of another thread, this time is not part of the usual frame time.

### Common Operator Info Channels
- total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
- cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
- cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
- cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
- cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
- warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
- errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
