# Face Track SOP

**Family:** SOP (Surface Operator)

## Summary

The models for this node must be separately downloaded via the AR SDK for your GPU from https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/geforce/broadcasting/broadcast-sdk/resources/.The Face Track SOP provides accesses to the fitted face mesh generated by the Face Track CHOP. It can either be uploaded directly to the GPU for rendering or passed along to other SOPs for further modification. By default, the mesh is pre-transformed to align with the source face of the input image (x, y positions equal image u,v positions). However, you can also disable the pre-transform which will leave the fitted mesh at the origin in the original scale. The mesh can still be aligned with the image using the tx, ty, rx, etc channels of the Face Track CHOP.

> **Note:** To use this feature you will need to provide a compatible 3D morphable face mesh file in Nvidia 'nvf' format to the 'Mesh File' parameter of the Face Track CHOP. This file does not ship with TouchDesigner, but instructions on creating one are provided on the Face Track CHOP page.

## Parameters

### Face Track Page

#### Face Track CHOP `chop`

The path to the Face Track CHOP that generates the mesh.

#### Direct to GPU `directtogpu`

When active, the mesh will be transferred directly to the GPU. This method is much faster, but does not allow it to be transformed further by additional SOPs.

#### Pre-Transform Mesh `pretransform`

The fitted mesh will be transformed to align with the input image that was used to create the mesh. When disabled, the mesh will be positioned at the origin at its original scale.

#### Compute Normals `normals`

Enable to automatically generate smooth vertex normals for the face mesh.

## Info CHOP Channels

Extra Information for the Face Track SOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

### Common SOP Info Channels
- num_points - Number of points in this SOP.
- num_prims - Number of primitives in this SOP.
- num_particles - Number of particles in this SOP.
- last_vbo_update_time - Time spent in another thread updating geometry data on the GPU from the SOP's CPU data. As it is part of another thread, this time is not part of the usual frame time.
- last_meta_vbo_update_time - Time spent in another thread updating meta surface geometry data (such as metaballs or nurbs) on the GPU from the SOP's CPU data. As it is part of another thread, this time is not part of the usual frame time.

### Common Operator Info Channels
- total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
- cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
- cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
- cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
- cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
- warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
- errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
