# Transform XYZ CHOP

**Family:** CHOP (Channel Operator)

## Summary

The Transform XYZ CHOP is used to transform positions and vector. The difference between transforming a position vs. a vector is that a vector won't have the translation portion of the transformation applied to it.The Transform XYZ CHOP first groups the channels from the first input by looking for 'x', 'y' and 'z' as the last character in the channel names. Then it treats each of the sets created as either a Position or a Vector depending on the parameter choice. The second input can be connected, and must describe a transform in the same format of channels that the Transform CHOP supports. The second input is combined with the 'Transform' page parameters, and the resulting transform is applied to the input positions and vectors.CHOPs with multiple-samples can be provided, which allows for larger amount of positional data to be transformed in a single CHOP.

See also the Transform CHOP.

## Parameters

### Input Page

#### Input 0 Type `input0type`

Choose if the input 0 values should be treated as a position or a vectors. Vectors will not have the translation portion of the transform applied to them, and can be normalized before and/or after the transformation is applied.

- **Position** `position` - Treat the input 0 values a positions.
- **Vector** `vector` - Treat the input 0 values a vectors.

#### Normalize `innormalize`

If the input is vectors, they can be normalized before the transformation is applied.

#### Custom Input Order `custinputorder`

This allows the input order for input 1, if provided, to be ignored and overridden by a custom order chosen by the following two parameters.

#### Transform Order `inxord`

Changing the Transform order will change where things go much the same way as going a block and turning east gets you to a different place than turning east and then going a block. In matrix math terms, if we use the 'multiply vector on the right' (column vector) convention, a transform order of Scale, Rotate, Translate would be written as T * R * S * Position

- **Scale Rotate Translate** `srt`
- **Scale Translate Rotate** `str`
- **Rotate Scale Translate** `rst`
- **Rotate Translate Scale** `rts`
- **Translate Scale Rotate** `tsr`
- **Translate Rotate Scale** `trs`

#### Rotate Order `inrord`

As with transform order (above), changing the order in which the rotations take place will alter the final position and orientation. A Rotation order of Rx Ry Rz would create the final rotation matrix as follows R = Rz * Ry * Rx

- **Rx Ry Rz** `xyz`
- **Rx Rz Ry** `xzy`
- **Ry Rx Rz** `yxz`
- **Ry Rz Rx** `yzx`
- **Rz Rx Ry** `zxy`
- **Rz Ry Rx** `zyx`

#### Input 1 Pre Operation `input1preop`

Operation(s) to apply on the transforms on Input 1, before they are combined with other transforms.

- **None** `none` - No operation is applied.
- **Invert** `invert` - Invert the transform.
- **Transpose** `transpose` - Transpose the transform. This only has an effect for matrix format transforms.
- **Invert Transpose** `inverttranspose` - Invert and Transpose the transform. The transpose will only be done if the input is a matrix format transform.

### Transform Page

#### Transform Order `xord`

See description from earlier Transform Order parameter.

- **Scale Rotate Translate** `srt`
- **Scale Translate Rotate** `str`
- **Rotate Scale Translate** `rst`
- **Rotate Translate Scale** `rts`
- **Translate Scale Rotate** `tsr`
- **Translate Rotate Scale** `trs`

#### Rotate Order `rord`

See description from earlier Rotate Order parameter.

- **Rx Ry Rz** `xyz`
- **Rx Rz Ry** `xzy`
- **Ry Rx Rz** `yxz`
- **Ry Rz Rx** `yzx`
- **Rz Rx Ry** `zxy`
- **Rz Ry Rx** `zyx`

#### Translate `t`

XYZ translation values.

- **X** `tx`
- **Y** `ty`
- **Z** `tz`

#### Rotate `r`

XYZ rotation, in degrees.

- **X** `rx`
- **Y** `ry`
- **Z** `rz`

#### Scale `s`

XYZ scale to shrink or enlarge the transform.

- **X** `sx`
- **Y** `sy`
- **Z** `sz`

#### Pivot `p`

XYZ pivot to apply the above operations around.

- **X** `px`
- **Y** `py`
- **Z** `pz`

#### Pre Operation `preop`

Turn this on to invert the transform generated by this page before combining it with the other terms.

#### Multiply Order `multiplyorder`

Controls how the input transform(s) are combined with the transform specified on this page. The below two descriptions use a multiply "vector on the right" convention (column vectors).

- **Input, then Transform Page** `inputxformpage` - The transforms will be combined as .
- **Transform Page, then Input** `xformpageinput` - The transforms will be combined as .

### Output Page

#### Un-matched Channels `unmatchedchans`

Controls how channels that don't match the naming convention for the various transform format are treated.

- **Warn** `warn` - Give a warning if transform channels that don't match any of the naming convenstions are found.
- **Ignore** `ignore` - Ignore (give no warning) if channels that don't match the naming convention are found.
- **Delete** `delete` - Delete all channels that don't match any of the naming conventions.

#### Normalize `normalize`

If the input data is being treated as vectors, they can be re-normalized after the transform by turning this on.

### Common Page

#### Time Slice `timeslice`

Turning this on forces the channels to be "Time Sliced". A Time Slice is the time between the last cook frame and the current cook frame.

#### Scope `scope`

To determine which channels get affected, some CHOPs use a Scope string on the Common page. See Pattern Matching.

#### Sample Rate Match `srselect`

Handle cases where multiple input CHOPs' sample rates are different. When Resampling occurs, the curves are interpolated according to the Interpolation Method Option, or "Linear" if the Interpolate Options are not available.

- **Resample At First Input's Rate** `first` - Use rate of first input to resample others.
- **Resample At Maximum Rate** `max` - Resample to the highest sample rate.
- **Resample At Minimum Rate** `min` - Resample to the lowest sample rate.
- **Error If Rates Differ** `err` - Doesn't accept conflicting sample rates.

#### Export Method `exportmethod`

This will determine how to connect the CHOP channel to the parameter. Refer to the Export article for more information.

- **DAT Table by Index** `datindex` - Uses the docked DAT table and references the channel via the index of the channel in the CHOP.
- **DAT Table by Name** `datname` - Uses the docked DAT table and references the channel via the name of the channel in the CHOP.
- **Channel Name is Path:Parameter** `autoname` - The channel is the full destination of where to export to, such has .

#### Export Root `autoexportroot`

This path points to the root node where all of the paths that exporting by Channel Name is Path:Parameter are relative to.

#### Export Table `exporttable`

The DAT used to hold the export information when using the DAT Table Export Methods (See above).

#### Rename from `commonrenamefrom`

The channel pattern to rename. See Pattern Matching.

#### Rename to `commonrenameto`

The replacement pattern for the names. The default parameters do not rename the channels. See Pattern Replacement. Example: Channel Names: c[1-10:2] ambient Rename From: c* ambient Rename To: b[1-5] ambThis example fetches channels c1 c3 c5 c7 c9 and ambient. They are then renamed to to b1 b2 b3 b4 b5 and amb.

## Operator Inputs

- Input 0: Position/Vectors - One or more sets of channels with 'x', 'y' and 'z' as the last character in their names, to be transformed.
- Input 1: Transform - An optional additional transform that can be applied. Valid formats are the same as the Transform CHOP.

## Info CHOP Channels

Extra Information for the Transform XYZ CHOP can be accessed via an Info CHOP.

### Common CHOP Info Channels
- start - Start of the CHOP interval in samples.
- length - Number of samples in the CHOP.
- sample_rate - The samplerate of the channels in frames per second.
- num_channels - Number of channels in the CHOP.
- time_slice - 1 if CHOP is Time Slice enabled, 0 otherwise.
- export_sernum - A count of how often the export connections have been updated.

### Common Operator Info Channels
- total_cooks - Number of times the operator has cooked since the process started.
- cook_time - Duration of the last cook in milliseconds.
- cook_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the component timeline.
- cook_abs_frame - Frame number when this operator was last cooked relative to the absolute time.
- cook_start_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator started cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cook_end_time - Time in milliseconds at which the operator finished cooking in the frame it was cooked.
- cooked_this_frame - 1 if operator was cooked this frame.
- warnings - Number of warnings in this operator if any.
- errors - Number of errors in this operator if any.
